This projects aims at doing "all" of a GM's works during a draft season. For that, I will make three models:

- One that predicts whether a draft pick (only) trade benefits one team or the other based on recent trades that happened and the differnece in the weighted Approximate Value (player's success statistical measurement calculated by Pro Football Reference) generated by the trade for both teams (most specifically, their differece);

- One that generates a draft board based on college PFF grades for each draftable player over 7 years, as well as the weighted Approximate Value that they generated. This will then be used to predict the wAV value of incoming players based on their college PFF grades

- And a third that predicts a team's record on the following based on last season's record, strength of schedule in both seasons, team players' grades from past season (that stayed) and free agent additions, and more.

The latter two models appeared as ideas to compliment the first model, although I later decided to not use the board creator code, since I saw how, even though it got most players right on their positioanl rankings, it had a strong bias towards certain positions, and got some players very wrong even on their own position. Nevertheless, I plan on using the model that predicts a team's record on the following year, since it will be useful by substituting the current dictionary (if the user prefers so).

The models have shown an impressive feat: they do a much better job at predicting the outcome of a pick when compared to the baseline model (predicting the mean of the target variable). The trade chart model predicts trade outcomes 35% better than the baseline model. Similarly the board creator also outperforms the baseline model in all but two positions (QB and OL, which are also considered the most unpredictable positions in scouting). It still does a good job at predicting good QBs and OLs however, having very similar projections to that of NFL front offices (and to what happened in the season) for the 2024 draft.

How to use the Trade Chart Model model:

First of all, make sure to download the csv file as well as the code. Then, make sure you have all of the libraries installed.

When you're ready, add the trade that you are proposing at the function call "model.train_and_predict". For easeness, put in the picks you are giving in the first list, and the picks you are receiving in the second list. For now, the model only truly works with current year and following year's picks. Nevertheless, if you want to you can add a pick in the following year after that, just make sure to include 1st, 2nd, 3rd, or whatever the round is on the string.

Finally, change the next_year_picks_estimation based on how much you value each pick, as well as the record you predict the team giving a following year pick to have. Please note that for now that represents both teams' next years' picks, but this will be changed soon.

How to use the Board Creator Model:

If you do not want to use one of the two draftable classes, you will need to have a PFF pro subscription, and import that year's PFF grades for the NCAA regular season (for QBs — passing —, RBs — rushing —, WRs and TEs — receiving —, and all defensive positions). You will also need to import a big board. For convinience, I used Pro Football Reference's draft order csv file.

Then, use the helper (data filtering) codes to generate final grades' files for each position (if you only want to use one year's grades, only use "Board Creator/Helper (Data Filtering) Codes/cut_players_not_on_draft.py")

Finally, change the file directories in ml_board_strength.py in the load_grades funtion and when calling model.predict_board_strength at the end of the code. The board will then be written at final_board.csv